GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
tonight: Front-runners
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump
take Super
Tuesday by storm -- what this
means for the
parties and the rest of the
presidential race.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Wednesday:
The Supreme Court hears its
first abortion
case in nine years, a law that
could add toughening
restrictions to clinics in Texas
and beyond.
GWEN IFILL: Then, we talk with
the U.S. ambassador
to the U.N., Samantha Power,
about the toughest
sanctions yet on North Korea.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus: Astronaut
Scott Kelly
returns home after spending
nearly a year
in space, a record for an
American astronaut.
SCOTT KELLY, NASA Astronaut: On
one hand,
I look forward to going home,
but it's something
that has been such a big part of
my life.
And I'm going to miss it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: Super Tuesday has
given way to
what might be dubbed whither
Wednesday, as
in, how much longer can this go
on? The Republican
and Democratic leaders forged
ahead today,
leaving rivals with some hard
calculating
to do.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
What a Super Tuesday.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
GWEN IFILL: It was a big night
for front-runners
Hillary Clinton and Donald
Trump. With seven
Super Tuesday wins apiece, each
now holds
commanding leads.
For the rest of the field,
Tuesday's results
dramatically narrowed any path
to the nomination.
But most promised, for now, to
press on. Ted
Cruz won three states last night
and he campaigned
late today in Kansas.
And, today, Marco Rubio cast his
vote early
for the March 15 Florida
primary.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
You know, last night was
supposed to be Ted
Cruz's night. We beat him in
half the states
on the ballot. We won the state
of Minnesota.
We picked up a lot of delegates
and we feel
great about what the map looks
like now moving
forward.
GWEN IFILL: And although he won
no states
yesterday, Ohio Governor John
Kasich headed
to Michigan this afternoon.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate:
Listen, we have an election
coming, they tell
me, and it would be really,
really if the
people in Michigan voted for
somebody from
Ohio.
GWEN IFILL: Ben Carson, who has
trailed far
behind the others, announced
today he is dropping
out of tomorrow's GOP debate in
his hometown
of Detroit, writing supporters:
"I do not
see a political path forward."
On the Democratic side, Bernie
Sanders won
four states last night,
Minnesota, Oklahoma,
Colorado and his home state of
Vermont. He
campaigned in Maine today,
taking shots at
both Clinton and Trump.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
And it turns out that when they
do these matchups
of Sanders vs Trump, Clinton vs
Trump, we
almost always do better in those
matchups
than Secretary Clinton. So, if
people want
a candidate who will defeat one
or another
of these right-wing Republicans,
I think you're
looking at him this afternoon.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
GWEN IFILL: But Clinton won
significantly
more delegates, with lopsided
victories mostly
in the South.
Many Republicans have not
embraced Trump's
status as prohibitive
front-runner. Mitt Romney,
the party's 2012
standard-bearer, announced
he will deliver an address on
the state of
the race tomorrow. And although
he has been
harshly critical of Trump, there
was no indication
he plans to endorse a candidate
or jump in
the race himself.
Democrats appeared to relished
Trump's triumph.
SEN. HARRY REID (D-NV), Minority
Leader: Republicans
shouldn't be surprised. They
spent eight years
laying the groundwork for the
rise of Donald
Trump. The reality is that
Republican leaders
are reaping what they have sown.
GWEN IFILL: Tuesday night's
winners are clearly
setting their sights on the
general election
and on each other.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: It's
clear tonight
that the stakes in this election
have never
been higher, and the rhetoric
we're hearing
on the other side has never been
lower.
(BOOING)
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Once we get all of this
finished, I'm going
to go after one person -- that's
Hillary Clinton
-- on the assumption that she's
allowed to
run, which is a big assumption.
I don't know
that she's going to be allowed
to run. And
I think that's, frankly, going
to be an easy
race.
GWEN IFILL: Voters in more than
a dozen states
head to the polls over the next
two weeks,
including in delegate-rich
Florida, North
Carolina, Ohio, and Michigan.
We will analyze the state of the
race after
the news summary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news, the
U.N. Security Council approved
the toughest
sanctions on North Korea in 20
years. It's
punishment for nuclear and
missile tests earlier
this year.
The sanctions will mandate
inspections of
all cargo shipped to and from
North Korea
by land, sea or air. They also
freeze financial
assets and cut off weapons sales
to what's
officially called the Democratic
People's
Republic of Korea. The vote was
unanimous,
with U.S. Ambassador to U.N.
Samantha Power
saying existing sanctions don't
go far enough.
SAMANTHA POWER, U.S. Ambassador
to the United
Nations: That is why the
resolution we have
just adopted is so much tougher
than any prior
North Korea resolution. We have
studied the
ways the DPRK has been able to
exploit gaps
and evade measures aimed at
impeding its nuclear
weapons and ballistic missile
programs . And
we have put in place new
measures to fill
those gaps one by one.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will speak
with Ambassador
Power later in the program.
GWEN IFILL: For the first time,
the U.S. military
has captured a significant
Islamic State leader
in Iraq. It's widely reported he
was seized
last month by a special
operations unit that
recently deployed. The group's
mission is
to disrupt ISIS in Iraq and
Syria. Officials
have not released the militant
leader's identity.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Pressure built on
the Balkan
states today to let more
migrants move north
from Greece. Macedonia did let
170 people
cross its border, but many
thousands more
are still stranded.
James Mates of Independent
Television News
is there:
JAMES MATES: The door has
finally opened,
albeit just a crack, a few
Syrian and Iraqi
families with young children
today allowed
from Greece into Macedonia,
14-year-old Ribhan
and her 8-old sister, Rezan,
among the first
to pass through this tiny door
to what they
hope is a new life.
How many days have you been
waiting in the
camp?
GIRL: Ten.
JAMES MATES: Ten days? And where
do you want
to go to now?
GIRL: Germany.
JAMES MATES: From the other side
of the fence,
those not getting through
watched and shouted
their frustrations.
WOMAN: Be merciful for all those
people. We
are not terrorists.
CROWD: Open! Open!
JAMES MATES: The prime minister
of Slovakia,
one of the countries on the
refugee route,
had come to see how his
policemen were helping
to block the passage north.
This has been the first movement
through this
border post for 48 hours or so.
Whether it's
part of a change of police or
simply connected
to this official visit, we will
find out soon
enough. But, either way, the
flow is barely
a trickle, while the numbers
still arriving
in Greece resemble a flood, more
than 2,000
a day, many today making their
way through
fields towards this same crowded
camp.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As of today, some
30,000 people
are now waiting in Greece for
the chance to
move north.
GWEN IFILL: Another piece of a
long-missing
Malaysia Airlines flight may
have been found.
It turned up on Mozambique over
the weekend.
That's thousands of miles from
Flight 370's
last known coordinates, before
it vanished
two years ago. So far, the only
confirmed
trace of the plane is a part of
one wing.
It was found last year on
another island off
Africa.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Indonesia was
spared major
damage today from a powerful
earthquake. It
had a magnitude of 7.8 and was
centered 400
miles off Sumatra. Police in the
coastal city
of Padang initially issued
tsunami warnings
and evacuated a hospital. But,
in the end,
residents were largely
unaffected.
GWEN IFILL: And Wall Street
managed modest
gains. The Dow Jones industrial
average was
up 34 points to close just short
of 16900.
The Nasdaq rose nearly 14
points, and the
S&P 500 added eight.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the first
major abortion case in a decade
is heard at
the Supreme Court; charting the
path to the
White House after Super Tuesday;
Donald Trump
and the future of the Republican
Party; and
much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Big wins on Super
Tuesday,
and impressive delegate leads,
have both the
Trump and Clinton campaigns
starting to set
their sites on the general
election.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
We have got work to do, but that
work -- that
work is not to make America
great again. America
never stopped being great. We...
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: We have
to make America
whole.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
She wants to make America whole
again. And
I am trying to figure out, what
is that all
about? Make America great again
is going to
be much better than making
America whole again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, we unpack
last night's
results, and how it shapes the
road to the
White House, with Reid Wilson,
chief political
correspondent for The Morning
Consult, and
Susan Page, Washington bureau
chief for USA
Today.
And we welcome you both.
So, you know, let's -- they're
focusing, already,
to some extent, on the general
election, but
let's talk about what they still
have to deal
with in the primaries.
Susan, what did you make of the
Super Tuesday
result on the Democratic side?
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today:
On the Democratic side, I think
it was a pretty
good night for Hillary Clinton.
She won seven
states. The sweetest victory had
to be in
Massachusetts.
That's a state right next door
to Vermont.
It's a state that knows Bernie
Sanders well.
And it's a state that is
famously liberal.
And for her to beat Bernie
Sanders in Massachusetts,
I think, was a sign that while
he will still
win some states, and he won some
states last
night, that she is now on a
pretty steady
path toward the nomination.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did you read
of what the
voters were saying through the
exit polls?
REID WILSON, Morning Consult: We
still saw
a pretty divided Democratic
Party.
One half wants a candidate who
shares their
values, a candidate who cares
about people
like them. Bernie Sanders is
winning that
half. The other half is looking
towards November.
They want an experienced
candidate. They want
an electable candidate. And
those voters are
going with Hillary Clinton.
The difference, though, is in
the early states,
in Iowa, New Hampshire, the sort
of optimistic,
ideological, idealistic voters
were outweighing
the experience and electability
voters. Now
we have shifted to a part of the
campaign
where those sort of more
traditional Democrats
looking for a win in involve
play a much bigger
role in the Democratic
coalition.
SUSAN PAGE: But I think the two
parties have
slightly different problems with
their electorates.
With Democrats, it's not as
though Democratic
voters supporting Sanders find
Clinton unacceptable.
The question is, will they be
energized, will
they be enthusiastic and
therefore turn out
to vote in November, whereas
Republicans have
a big problem with a significant
numbers of
Republican voters who find
Donald Trump unacceptable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right. And the
turnout in Democrats,
striking that it's smaller than
it was the
last time.
Let's talk quickly about Bernie
Sanders, Susan,
and let's quickly look at the
delegate count.
Right now, if you're a -- the
Democrats, to
win the nomination, you need
almost 2,400
delegates. Hillary Clinton
already has over
1,000.
People are saying, OK, Bernie
Sanders, he's
done a great job, but some are
saying, why
is he staying in?
SUSAN PAGE: Although I think
those numbers
are misleading, because her
numbers are really
boosted by her support among
those superdelegates,
Democratic officials who are
automatically
convention delegates.
If something happened, if for
some reason
she hit some huge stumbling
block, they could
easily turn away to a different
candidate.
They're not obliged to vote for
her. That
said, clearly, the Democratic
Party establishment
wants Hillary Clinton to be the
nominee. And
they would like this nomination
battle wrapped
up as soon as possible and with
as few wounds
as possible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And if you're
Bernie Sanders,
what are you hearing right now
from the voters
and from the Democratic
establishment?
REID WILSON: Well, the path that
Bernie Sanders
has to take to get to those
2,380 delegates
necessary to win the nomination
is pretty
steep.
The way the Democratic calendar
is set up,
it sort of favors the
front-runner. Recall,
back in 2008, Super Tuesday gave
a state -- a
U.S. senator named Barack Obama
just enough
of a lead over Hillary Clinton
that he could
sort of sustain it through the
long, grueling
months until he got to those
delegates necessary
to win.
So what the Sanders campaign has
to do right
now is, they have to win by
increasingly larger
shares as the contest goes on.
That becomes
harder and harder, especially in
a party that
shows that it's OK with Hillary
Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Susan,
let's talk
about the Republicans.
You mentioned Donald Trump. We
have a little
bit of news today, in that Ben
Carson let
it be known that he will not be
staying in
the race. I guess he will make
the formal
announcement later.
What does that do to the field?
Obviously,
one person less. Does it change
anything?
There is now so much pressure on
the Republicans
to do something about Donald
Trump.
SUSAN PAGE: I think that it has
very little
effect.
Ben Carson's support had gotten
pretty low.
If you look at it, maybe it
boosts Ted Cruz
a little bit because of the
evangelical Christian
nature of a lot of Ben Carson's
support. I
think it's not important. I
think it's not
really a significant factor.
What you did have today were
wealthy contributors
to the Republican Party who are
unhappy with
the idea of a Trump candidacy
seeing if they
can do something to stop him.
And I think
that is not likely to have much
more effect
than Ben Carson pulling out.
These big donors have not had
the kind of
effect this year that they have
had in years
past. So, super PACs that got so
much attention
early on didn't save Jeb Bush at
all in his
candidacy. So it seems to me
that a candidate
like Donald Trump, who has
gotten where he
is by attracting Republican
voters to primaries
and caucuses, is not going to be
undone by
contributors deciding they're
not happy with
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Reid, what
are the Republican
voters saying?
A number of them were
interviewed in these
exit polls. What are they saying
about why
they are supporting Donald
Trump, if they
are, and if they're not, why
not?
REID WILSON: Well, again, there
is this sort
of division as on the Democratic
side.
The division on the Republican
side, though,
is between those who want an
electable candidate,
Mitt Romney -- Marco Rubio --
excuse me -- Freudian
slip. Marco Rubio tends to win
those candidates
and do much better among them.
On the other hand, there are
candidates who
-- there are voters who want
change and who
want somebody who will tell it
like it is.
And that's the single biggest
segment that
is voting for Donald Trump.
There are a lot
of voters out there who feel
like they haven't
gotten the straight truth from
politicians,
not only politicians at large,
but even Republican
politicians.
A huge percentage of the
Republican electorate
doesn't trust their own
politicians. They're
Trump voters.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Excuse me. I was
just going
to say, how does one account,
though, for
the just surprisingly high
turnout among Republicans?
Maybe if you're Donald Trump,
you don't think
it's so surprising, but he's
bringing new
people into the voting booth,
isn't he?
SUSAN PAGE: Well, two things are
happening.
One, we have had this
record-size field, so
you have had a lot of candidates
out there
trying to get their voters to
the polls. That's
had one effect. But I do think
Donald Trump
is bringing new and different
people to the
Republican Party. And if he's
the nominee,
he will redefine to at least
some extent what
it means to be a Republican,
what the Republican
Party stands for, because these
are voters
who are not necessarily free
traders in the
Republican tradition, or for a
muscular national
defense.
These are people who are focused
on the economy
at home, worried about their own
futures and
have an approach to politics
that is different
from the old Republican Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And these new
voters, I think,
Reid Wilson, make it harder for
those who
are trying to come up with a
scenario to get
rid of Donald Trump.
But, just quickly, let's look at
the delegates
on the Republican side. You need
1,237 to
win the nomination. Trump has
319. Cruz is
at 226. So it's a lead, but it
doesn't look
like an overwhelming lead. You
just look at
these numbers.
REID WILSON: It's not, but once
again, because
of the proportional rules under
which this
calendar is operating, it is
harder and harder
as the calendar goes on for
somebody to make
up even the smallest gap.
The big moments left in this
campaign are
going to come on March 15, when,
under Republican
Party rules, states can award
delegates on
a winner-take-all basis, the two
big prizes
that day, Ohio and Florida. Both
home state
candidates in the race, John
Kasich, the governor
of Ohio, Marco Rubio, the
senator from Florida,
if those two can't win, if
Donald Trump wins
those states -- and he's ahead
in both -- then
this race is pretty much over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it just
gets fascinatinger
and fascinatinger every day.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Reid Wilson,
Susan Page, thank
you.
SUSAN PAGE: Thank you.
REID WILSON: You bet.
GWEN IFILL: Over or not, the
battle within
the GOP is threatening to split
the party
in two.
We get views from the pro-Trump
and the stop-Trump
wings of the party.
Kansas Secretary of State Kris
Kobach endorsed
Trump this week, and strategist
Henry Barbour
is Mississippi's Republican
National Committeeman.
He is backing Marco Rubio.
Gentlemen, thank you for joining
us.
So, starting with you, Henry
Barbour, what
is Donald Trump's success, his
electoral successes
in the past few weeks, what is
It doing to
or for the party?
HENRY BARBOUR, Republican
Strategist: Well,
you know, I think that remains
to be seen
what Donald Trump is doing to
the party.
You know, we're still very early
in this process.
You have got to get 1,237
delegates to win.
We have only allocated some 728
delegates
to this point. And for Mr. Trump
to get to
1,237, he has got a lot -- he
has a long ways
to get there.
It's not inevitable that Donald
Trump is going
to be our candidate. We have
1,100 delegates
that will be awarded in March
and April, and
there is no way that Mr. Trump
is going to
be able to get there at the pace
that he's
been going. He won 42 percent of
the delegates
yesterday. That would put him at
about 750
delegates at the end of April.
My point is, Gwen, we have a
long ways to
go in this process, and a
majority of Republicans,
about two-thirds, are voting for
somebody
other than Mr. Trump.
GWEN IFILL: But, Mr. Barbour, is
this about
delegate nose-counting or this
about a rejection
from so many Republicans of the
establishment,
of the way the Republican Party
has always
been structured?
HENRY BARBOUR: Well, look, the
voters are
going to decide in the
Republican primaries
and caucuses around the country
who they want
to be our nominee, whether
that's Donald Trump
or Marco Rubio, who is a
candidate who I think
could -- that we could coalesce
behind and
who could beat Hillary Clinton.
I'm afraid Donald Trump would
lose in the
general election against Hillary
Clinton,
when he can't answer a question
about the
Ku Klux Klan, whether he's for
them or against
them. Sounded like he needed to
do a little
bit of studying or fix his
earpiece or something.
I'm not sure what that was
about.
And Reid mentioned in the
segment before this
that people like that Donald
Trump tells it
like it is, but I think if you
ask the students
at Trump University, they
weren't told like
it is. The New York attorney
general said
it was a bait and switch
program, a scam.
GWEN IFILL: Kris Kobach, why did
you decide
to endorse Donald Trump?
KRIS KOBACH (R), Kansas
Secretary of State:
Well, first and foremost,
because he's taking
the strongest position we have
ever heard
a presidential candidate take on
illegal immigration
and the vulnerability our
country faces with
respect to immigrants coming
legally through
the refugee system, which is
now, it appears,
being used by ISIS as way of
getting into
the United States and into
Western Europe,
and illegally.
And the threat to our country in
terms of
national security and then the
threat to working
Americans who see their wages
depressed if
they don't lose their job, or
lose their job,
is something that many people
say, look, Trump
is the guy who's actually going
to do something
about it, and he's not speaking
in half-words
and half-tones. He's saying,
look, we're going
to solve the problem and solve
it now.
The other thing that I really
find appealing
about Donald Trump is he is
massively broadening
the Republican base for the
first time in,
well, 25 years. And we have had
all of these
talking heads and consultants
tell the party
-- Republican Party, well, the
way you broaden
your base is you roll over on
amnesty and
you tell everyone you're for
amnesty and then,
hopefully, instead of getting 30
percent of
the Hispanic vote, you will get
40 percent
of the Hispanic vote.
That doesn't broaden the base.
What Trump
is doing is broadening the base,
and we're
seeing it right before our very
eyes. But,
unfortunately, the Republican
establishment
is looking a gift horse in the
mouth and saying,
yes, we don't really want those
blue-collar
workers who are coming over to
the Republican
Party.
And I think that's the biggest
thing Trump
offers is when you have
something like the
Reagan coalition, where you have
massive numbers
of Democrats and independents
who are working
men and women voting Republican.
And I think
that's a huge threat to the
Democrat Party's
base too, if that happens.
GWEN IFILL: I get the feeling
that Henry Barbour
wants to respond.
HENRY BARBOUR: Well, it's just
funny that
Kris mentions gifts that Mr.
Trump has given.
And I know we he gave a gift to
Hillary Clinton
so she would come to his
wedding. And, I mean,
if that doesn't look like an
establishment
move, you know, I don't know
what is.
I do think that, if you look at
Marco Rubio's
track record in Florida, he was
the original
renegade who ran against the
establishment
in Florida, a sitting governor
running for
the U.S. Senate. Everybody told
Marco, you
can't do it. The Tea Party
rallied around
Marco Rubio and he won. And he's
been a real
reformer and he's made a real
difference as
a conservative.
And I think one of the important
differences
for Republican primary voters to
understand
is, we know that Marco Rubio is
a conservative.
Has a 98 percent rating with the
American
Conservative Union.
One day, Donald Trump says he's
pro-choice.
The next day, he says he's
pro-life, yet he's
giving money to Planned
Parenthood, which
funds abortions.
GWEN IFILL: Let me ask you both
about whether
this means -- the big discussion
here and
around the country is whether
the Republican
Party is splitting apart.
Can you see, Kris Kobach, a way
that Donald
Trump goes to the convention,
plays by the
rules of this party, and unites
the party,
as he said last night he would?
KRIS KOBACH: You know, I think
it is going
to happen, because, at the end
of the day,
although there is grousing among
some of the
moneyed establishment interests
and some people
in the RNC, but not all, they're
going to
have -- ultimately, if you have
this many
voters saying overwhelmingly,
yes, we like
Trump, which is what's happening
-- and you
are going to see more of it as
you get to
the winner-take-all states,
where the delegates
are overwhelmingly in his corner
-- I can't
see any way that the RNC or the
Republican
establishment, however you
define it, would
then say, you know what? We're
going to try
to find some way to derail the
Trump campaign.
I think you will see the -- the
threat of
a Clinton presidency will be so
great that
Republicans will united behind
Mr. Trump.
And I just want to answer one
point about
Mr. Rubio being a conservative.
Look, he is
still for in-state tuition for
illegal aliens,
which he advocated for in
Florida. He's still
for amnesty. He just says, well,
we will secure
the border, then we will have
amnesty.
I mean, he hasn't take a
conservative position
on this critically important
issue. And he
even deceived Florida voters
when he was running
against Charlie Crist, saying,
well, he's
going to be opposed to amnesty.
Then he came
in and give the opposite.
(CROSSTALK)
KRIS KOBACH: So, I think that's
-- well, he
told Florida voters that he was
against amnesty.
Then he sponsored the amnesty
when he got
into the U.S. Senate.
GWEN IFILL: I just want to make
the point
that, looking at exit polls last
night, not
a lot of voters were listing
immigration as
their reason for supporting
Donald Trump.
But I want to -- we don't have a
lot of time
left. So, I want to ask Henry
Barbour about
this whole question about
contested elections,
and the general election and
whether in the
end Donald Trump is electable,
and, if he
is, whether he would get your
support ultimately
-- could get your support.
HENRY BARBOUR: Well, look, right
now, he's
getting the support of about 35
or so percent
of Republicans.
So, the majority of Republicans
right now
want somebody else. And I think
he would have
a hard time winning the general
election.
I have said consistently...
(CROSSTALK)
HENRY BARBOUR: I'm sorry, Kris.
I have said consistently that I
intend to
support the nominee. And that's
what I hope
to do. I will say this. Mr.
Trump's comments
about the Klan the other day, as
a guy from
Mississippi, I find that very
troubling. And
when he tries to pawn it off
that something
happened with his earpiece, I
just find that
really hard to believe.
And maybe Kris can explain that.
KRIS KOBACH: Well, he's
disavowed it so many
times, and I find it kind of
strange when
Republicans, who are constantly
falsely called
racists, suddenly take the
left's tactics
and start using it against
fellow Republicans.
Come on.
And we are all going to support
the candidate
at the end of the day. If Rubio
wins, which
I don't think will happen, I
will be supporting
him.
GWEN IFILL: Well, this is a
disagreement we're
not going to settle tonight, but
we will revisit
it.
Kris Kobach, the Kansas
secretary of state,
Henry Barbour, member of the RNC
from Mississippi,
thank you both.
KRIS KOBACH: My pleasure.
HENRY BARBOUR: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": we
talk to U.N.
Ambassador Samantha Power about
the toughest
sanctions on North Korea in 20
years; and
an out-of-this-world look at
Scott Kelly's
year in space.
But first to the Supreme Court,
and perhaps
the biggest case of this term.
WOMAN: We pray for all of us to
have courage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Activists on both
sides were
out in force, as the high court
heard its
first abortion case in almost a
decade.
WOMAN: As a religious leader, I
believe that
every individual has the right
to make their
own moral decisions.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
MAN: Lives are precious to me,
even lives
conceived in rape, even
disabled, even kids
that are suffering with multiple
surgeries
before they're five. Those kids
glorify God.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the docket,
whether a Texas
law imposes an undue burden on
the right to
obtain an abortion. The law
passed in 2013,
after a filibuster by then-state
Senator Wendy
Davis that drew national
attention. Abortion
clinics have to meet something
akin to hospital
standards and physicians must
have admitting
privileges at a hospital within
30 miles of
the clinic.
The state says its purpose is
simply to protect
women's health.
SCOTT KELLER, Texas Solicitor
General: This
case is not about overturning
Roe vs. Wade.
What this case -- the issue in
this case is,
can Texas enact valid patient
regulations
and improve safety? And when
over 210 women
annually are hospitalized due to
abortion,
Texas can.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But opponents say
more than
half of Texas' 41 abortion
clinics have closed
because they can't meet the new
standards.
They say the law, known as HB-2,
is really
a backdoor way to stop
abortions.
AMY HAGSTROM MILLER, Whole
Woman's Health:
It has been a long and arduous
road that has
led us to this day, but that is
nothing compared
to what the women of Texas will
face if HB-2
is not struck down. This law is
cruel and
it is harsh and it does nothing
to advance
medial health for women.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What the high
court will do
is even more of a guess than
usual, since
the death of conservative
Justice Antonin
Scalia. If there's a 4-4 split,
a lower court
ruling that affirmed the Texas
law may stand
for now.
And we take a closer look inside
the court
now, with Marcia Coyle, chief
Washington correspondent
for "The National Law Journal."
Marcia, so, abortion back in the
court after
a long, long spell of nine
years. How did
it all unfold today?
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Well, as you explained, the
issue before the
court is whether these
regulations create
an undue burden on a woman's
right to choose.
And, if it does, they're
unconstitutional.
But what does undue burden mean?
The Supreme
Court said in 1992 that an undue
burden is
unnecessary regulations with
having the purpose
or effect of presenting a
substantial obstacle
to a woman seeking an abortion.
So, during the arguments today,
first up was
the clinic's lawyer, and she
faced aggressive
and skeptical questioning by
Justice Alito
on the effect of these laws. He
didn't seem
persuaded that the clinics had
presented hard
and sufficient evidence that the
laws, the
regulations at issue here were
-- really had
the effect of closing the
clinics that closed
or that the remaining clinics
had the capacity
-- did not have the capacity to
handle the
demand for abortions by Texas
women.
On the other side, Justices
Kagan, Sotomayor
and Ginsburg also had aggressive
skeptical
questioning directed at Texas'
lawyer. There,
they focused on the purpose. Why
did Texas
do this? Texas says to protect
women's health.
Justice Kagan, for example,
asked, well, listen,
abortion is considered one of
the safest medical
procedures, outpatient
procedures today. In
fact, the risk is less than
liposuction. It's
less than some procedures in a
dentist's office.
Why don't those procedures
require being done
in ambulatory surgical
facilities?
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, so much of
the focus today,
Marcia, was on Justice Anthony
Kennedy, seen
as a swing vote, already a swing
vote, if
Justice Scalia were alive. Now
that he's gone,
we're looking at an eight-member
court. What
role was Kennedy playing? What
was he saying
today?
MARCIA COYLE: OK.
Justice Kennedy suggested a
couple of things
here that are very interesting.
First, for
the clinic's lawyer, he's
picking up on Justice
Alito's questions about
evidence. He said,
would it be helpful if we sent
the case back
to the lower court, so that both
sides could
put in evidence on the effect of
these regulations?
That's what we call a remand to
the lower
court. But he also said to the
Texas lawyer
on the purpose here, could it be
having the
opposite effect? Could these
regulations actually
be increasing the number of
surgical late-term
abortions with higher risks?
And he noted that, nationally,
abortions that
are done by drugs,
medically-induced abortions
are on the rise, but, in Texas
-- yes, they're
on the rise -- but, in Texas,
they are decreasing.
So, he offered maybe a way for
the court to
avoid a 4-4 split, which the
court generally
doesn't like to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The consequences
of this case,
as we suggested, Marcia, are
bigger than just
Texas.
MARCIA COYLE: Absolutely.
Even though -- if the court were
to split
4-4, the ruling would only
pertain to the
states that are covered by the
Fifth Circuit,
these battles in courts are
going on all around
the country. And I think both
sides were looking
to the Supreme Court for a
decision that would
resolve these battles. So it
does have implications
beyond Texas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A sense just
quickly, Marcia,
of Scalia's absence. Has that
now -- how does
it feel, I guess I'm asking, in
the court?
MARCIA COYLE: It's very
noticeable because
he always was a very dominant
figure during
the questioning.
And certainly on the culture war
issues, including
abortion, his voice was always
heard. He also
didn't believe that Roe v. Wade
was constitutional.
So, I think he clearly would
have been on
the side of Texas in upholding
these regulations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marcia Coyle in
the courtroom,
once again, thank you.
MARCIA COYLE: My pleasure, Judy.
GWEN IFILL: Now we get opposing
views from
two people who were also in the
room for today's
arguments, first Cecile
Richards, president
of Planned Parenthood, which
challenged the
Texas law.
Ms. Richards, part of the
discussion in the
courtroom today was about undue
burden, about
whether what the Texas law was
allowing would
place undue burden on women
seeking abortions.
How did that play out for you,
for your argument?
CECILE RICHARDS, President,
Planned Parenthood:
Well, I thought it was very
clear, and particularly
the solicitor general made a
very good point.
He just put it quite succinctly.
He said,
if a woman has a right that she
can't exercise,
it really isn't a right.
And I think the case that was
made about what's
happened to women in Texas,
particularly women
who live in rural areas, who
live in areas
that are not covered or are
hundreds of miles
away from an abortion provider,
that is an
undue burden.
And I think on the flip side,
too, the state
was completely unable to make
the case that
there was any medical benefit at
all to women
with the new restrictions that
have been put
in place.
GWEN IFILL: Justice Kennedy
expressed some
doubt today during these
arguments about whether
this shouldn't just be bounced
back to the
lower court. What effect would
that have on
your argument?
MD-BO /CECILE RICHARDS: Well, I
don't know
-- there's obviously a very --
now that there's
only eight justices on the
court, I think
there are a lot of different
things that could
happen.
But the women in Texas that are
suffering
right now, I think it's really
important that
this law be overturned, because
we see at
Planned Parenthood every day the
burdens that
women face to access safe and
legal abortion
care.
As we know, dozens of centers
have closed
in the state of Texas already,
and I think
it's time we actually restore
access in the
state. So I hope that, actually,
that the
judges will hear, I think, the
voices of women,
which to me were very present in
the room
today, in the courtroom today,
and rule that
this is an unconstitutional law
and one that
needs to be overturned.
GWEN IFILL: But if there is a
4-4 decision
with the case, the court as it
is currently
configured, that would be a
defeat for you,
wouldn't it, upholding the
previous law?
MD-BO /CECILE RICHARDS: It would
be a defeat
for the women of Texas,
absolutely.
And I really hope that's not
what happens.
I think that the lawyers made a
very compelling
case, and the justices were
quite compelling
about what the burden has been
on women. And
you know, the state has made --
somehow made
-- tried to make the argument
that this was
for the benefit of women's
health.
But, in fact, every reputable
national medical
organization, from the American
Medical Association
to the obstetricians and
gynecologists, to
family physicians, have said not
only are
these laws not beneficial for
women's health,
they do nothing to help women,
they actually
are harming women, because women
are delaying
care and making it much harder,
particularly
for women who are low-income in
the state
of Texas, to get access to a
safe and legal
abortion.
GWEN IFILL: You have alluded a
couple of times
to the burden on women, the
women of Texas.
Give me some examples of exactly
what would
happen or what has happened to
women seeking
abortions in these areas of the
state which
now don't have those facilities.
MD-BO /CECILE RICHARDS: Well, we
have already
seen a report out of Texas that
tens of thousands
of women have tried to
self-induce abortions.
And I think that is -- for
anyone in this
country who remembers the days
before Roe
vs. Wade, when young and healthy
women were
dying in emergency rooms across
this country...
GWEN IFILL: How do we know that
has to do
with this law, though?
MD-BO /CECILE RICHARDS: The fact
that women
-- because they haven't been
able to get access
to care.
And I will give you an example.
I was just
actually in Fort Worth, Texas,
this weekend,
and a young woman came up to me.
And, fortunately,
she was able to get care, but
she said she
had to drive 400 miles because
she lived in
deep West Texas, and there was
no other provider.
Even the state today admitted
that the lack
of a health care provider in El
Paso meant
women were driving to other
states. And I
think one of the things, Gwen,
that didn't
come up today, but I think is
really important,
is this case is not just about
Texas, because
we're already seeing in the
state of Louisiana
a similar law that is causing
now the closure
of other women's health centers
in Louisiana.
Ironically, women have been
driving from Texas
to Louisiana to have access to
an abortion
provider. Now, if you end access
in Louisiana
and Texas, and then soon
Mississippi, you're
talking about a whole area of
the country
where potentially women will not
have access
to abortion services.
GWEN IFILL: It's been a while
since we have
seen an abortion debate at the
high court.
How does this compare to, say,
the partial-birth
abortion ban debate in 2007?
MD-BO /CECILE RICHARDS: Well, I
think two
things that were really striking
to me.
One, of course, is that the
state has argued
that this is somehow to benefit
women's health.
And I think it was clearly
stated today there
is zero evidence that in fact it
is about
women's health, and it actually
has been devastating
for women.
The other thing that really
struck me was
the difference of having three
women on the
Supreme Court. I think that all
the justices
obviously are important in that
court, but
it really makes a difference to
begin to have
a court that more reflects the
diversity of
this country, and I think women
who can really
speak from a woman's point of
view, just how
impactful these kind of laws
that specifically
target women and women's access
to health
care, how impactful they are.
And I was really grateful to
have the women's
voices in the room.
GWEN IFILL: Cecile Richards,
president of
Planned Parenthood, thank you.
MD-BO /CECILE RICHARDS: Good to
see you,
Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: And now the other
side.
Clarke Forsythe is acting
president and senior
counsel for the anti-abortion
rights group
Americans United for Life.
I was just asking Cecile
Richards from Planned
Parenthood about the undue
burden argument.
That's the argument in which
they are challenging
whether this law, this Texas law
should be
upheld -- what -- or overruled.
What do you think about the
argument that
there is an undue burden being
placed on women?
CLARKE FORSYTHE, Acting
President and Senior
Counsel, Americans United for
Life: There
is no undue burden.
These are very important medical
regulations,
very important health and safety
regulations.
There have to be ambulatory
surgical treatment
standards. And you would want
every clinic
to meet those standards.
Every part of those standards
has a medical
logic and a grounding in medical
practice.
Dr. Donna Campbell was a state
senator who
testified in support of these
regulations
in the Texas Senate, 23 years an
emergency
room physician, and she
testified to the medical
logic behind every part of the
ambulatory
surgical standards, ASC
standards.
There is also an absolute
medical logic behind
admitting privileges. It
involves continuity
of care between the performing
surgeon and
the receiving surgeon in any
hospital if there
are complications.
You wouldn't want to go to a
clinic that didn't
meet ASC standards. You wouldn't
want to go
to a clinic in which the doctor
didn't have
admitting privileges. I wouldn't
want my wife
or one of my five daughters to
go to any clinic
that didn't meet these
standards.
GWEN IFILL: Is the argument
before the court
about medical logic or medical
standards,
or is it about access for rights
that women
under the Constitution or under
the laws that
currently exist already have?
CLARKE FORSYTHE: There is no
right to an unsafe
abortion.
Access doesn't mean anything if
it's not safe,
and you have safety for patients
by meeting
medical standards. These are
pervasive. ASC
standards are pervasive across
the country.
The real question in this case
is, why are
these generally applicable
longstanding standards
not applicable to abortion
clinics?
And the Supreme Court for 43
years since Roe
vs. Wade has never allowed
states to pass
health and safety regulations in
the first
trimester, when 90 percent are
done. This
is a landmark case, because the
has not permitted
that. The court is the national
abortion control
board.
They control standards in every
clinic, in
every state from coast to coast,
and they
have never allowed health and
safety regulations
in the first trimester. This is
a landmark
case.
GWEN IFILL: How different is the
-- are the
options now for you with a 4-4
court with
Justice Scalia's absence? Does
it change what
you expect the outcome to be?
CLARKE FORSYTHE: Well, based on
what I heard
in the courtroom today, I think
the most likely
result is a 4-4 split.
This has happened before in an
abortion case
during the Bork vacancy, before
Justice Kennedy
was confirmed in 1988. And a 4-4
split means
the lower court's decision is
what is called
affirmed by an equally divided
court.
It means the lower court's
decision stands,
and in this case...
GWEN IFILL: Which would be a
victory for you.
CLARKE FORSYTHE: And in this
case, a victory
for Texas, a victory for patient
care in Texas,
but it wouldn't have
applicability to any
other state.
And so most likely, the court
would have to
revisit this issue in 2017 or
2018.
GWEN IFILL: Justice Kennedy was
apparently
musing aloud today in the court
about the
possibility of just sending this
back to the
lower court again.
CLARKE FORSYTHE: That's a
possibility.
But if Justice Kennedy
scrupulously applies
his 2007 opinion in Gonzales vs.
Carhart for
five justices, he will uphold
these standards,
because you don't get two bites
at the apple
to make claims and then
repeatedly make claims.
The clinics had all the time in
the world
to make their claims and all the
time in the
world to put their facts in
about the burden
of these things, and they failed
to.
GWEN IFILL: The 2007 -- I just
want to clear
it up -- the 2007 decision you
just referred
to is the partial-birth abortion
ban.
CLARKE FORSYTHE: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: How different is the
situation
now, in 2016, than it was in
2007, when the
court acted on that?
CLARKE FORSYTHE: Well, if the
court scrupulously
applies the standards in 2007,
they should
uphold these regulations.
But this is a unique case,
because it's the
first time the court has had a
solid record
of facts on -- in protecting
maternal health.
And the court has never had that
before. I
was hoping -- I hope it's
eye-opening for
the court to see the need for
health and safety
regulations, the short-term and
long-term
risks, and the fact that access
doesn't mean
anything if you have got
substandard conditions
and substandard providers.
And that's why these standards
are so important.
GWEN IFILL: Clarke Forsythe,
president, acting
president of Americans United
for Life, thank
you very much.
CLARKE FORSYTHE: Thanks, Gwen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, as we
reported earlier,
the United Nations Security
Council unanimously
approved new sanctions against
North Korea
this morning. The sanctions
would affect many
sectors of North Korea's
economy, and were
designed to further limit its
nuclear program
after another bomb test in
January and a missile
launch last month.
The U.S. ambassador to the U.N.,
Samantha
Power, was instrumental in
getting these sanctions
approved. And she joins me now.
Ambassador Power, welcome to the
program.
This is, as you know, a
notoriously defiant
regime. Why will these sanctions
move them
in any useful way?
SAMANTHA POWER, U.S. Ambassador
to the United
Nations: Well, they are, as you
indicated,
the toughest and most
comprehensive sanctions
ever imposed on North Korea, of
course, but
also the toughest imposed by the
U.N. in more
than 20 years.
And, indeed, there are measures
in this package
of sanctions that have never
been done in
the whole history of the U.N.
So, for starters,
we have turned the dial up not
just a notch,
but many, many, many, many
notches.
And the degree of isolation, the
degree -- the
impediments to them actually
pursuing the
technology, the know-how, the
money, so many
channels that they have been
using to evade
prior sanctions regimes have now
been cut
off with this resolution.
And we're hopeful, also, Judy,
that -- you
know, China went along with this
resolution,
with these unprecedented
measures. And I think
that's a measure of China's
frustration with
the regime. And it's its own
signal, on top
of the practical effect of these
sanctions.
A very important message has
been sent, not
only by the international
community, but by
North Korea's very influential
neighbor, and,
of course, by the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, the U.S. is
confident that
China is going to be every bit
as aggressive
as these sanctions spell out in
enforcing
these?
And I want to ask you about
that, because
some of the terms here sound
like they're
very difficult to implement.
Inspecting all
the goods that go into and come
out of North
Korea, how do you do that?
SAMANTHA POWER: Well, each
country is going
to have to come up with its own
inspection
regime. That's why you're right
to point to
the fact that every member state
has a responsibility
to do this in as airtight a way
as possible.
Be just to signal the contrast
between where
are now, as of today's
resolution, vs. where
we were yesterday, yesterday, in
order for
a state to have an obligation to
inspect cargo
going into or out of DPRK, they
actually had
to have credible information
that there was
something traveling in that
cargo that had
a nexus with a ballistic missile
program or
a nuclear weapons program.
That's a bit of a needle in a
haystack. It's
hard to get intelligence of that
granularity
and then get it to people who
might inspect
in time. Now the presumption has
totally shifted,
where all cargo going into the
DPRK is suspected,
frankly, of being used to
service this program,
which they have advanced over
the years, and
every country is now going to
have to put
in place mechanisms to ensure
that that cargo
gets looked at.
And we will have means of
assessing whether
or not states are in compliance,
and we will
of course increase the political
costs and
bring to the sanctions committee
and so forth
anybody who seems to be
deviating from the
requirements of the new
resolution.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what will the
measure be
of whether these sanctions are
working?
SAMANTHA POWER: Well, that's a
great question.
I think, for starters, as I
mentioned, the
resolution is about actually
blocking stuff
coming into North Korea and
blocking their
ability to traffic in coal, in
iron ore, in
gold, and to use those proceeds
in order to
again acquire technologies,
dual-use and just
straight-up technologies that
they have used
to advance the program.
So there is just almost an
incapacitation
function. And when we see that
it's harder
for them to acquire materials,
that they can't
advance their program in the
same way, that
is going to be one sign that the
resolution
is biting.
The other, of course, and the
ultimate objective
here is for them to come to the
negotiating
table, but not just come to want
to talk about
whatever is on their agenda --
and they have
a few things they would like to
talk about
-- but to talk about
denuclearization, to
talk about irreversible,
complete, verifiable
denuclearization.
And that is something they have
not been prepared
to talk about in more than 10
years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to ask you
quickly about
one or two other important
international issues.
And one has to do with Syria,
the recent cessation
of hostilities agreement. It's
been reported
there's now been a number of
violations, including
by the Assad regime using
chemical weapons
in recent days. Assuming that is
true, how
much is the United States
prepared to tolerate
from whether it's Assad or any
of the other
parties in order to say that
this -- before
you say, frankly, that this
agreement isn't
working?
SAMANTHA POWER: Well, much like
the resolution
we passed today on North Korea,
we have, over
the course of the last year,
done something
very concrete on chemical
weapons, not only
removing and destroying the
declared chemical
weapons program by the regime,
but also creating
an accountability mechanism
where the OPCW
and the U.N. go out and actually
investigate
allegations of the kind that we
saw made by,
again, some high-level public
comments.
We ourselves are looking into
the report of
chlorine use. It wouldn't be the
first time,
if the regime had used chlorine,
but it would
be in blatant violation of the
cessation of
hostilities, and it would be
something that
we would expect Russia, as the
backer of the
Syrian regime, to hold the
regime accountable
for and to make sure that that
practice stopped,
as we then pursued
accountability for any
perpetrator of such an attack.
But, again, we can't confirm it.
What we do
know is that there have been
other forms of
violations, attacks in the
northwestern part
of the country. And, you know,
this is not
a perfect environment for a
cessation of hostilities.
We don't have a big monitoring
presence on
the ground. We don't have a
political agreement,
where a cessation of hostilities
accompanies
a political agreement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SAMANTHA POWER: So we never
expected it was
going be perfect, but I think
this U.S./Russia/ISSG
-- so-called ISSG channel -- is
where we seek
to in a way adjudicate these
things and then
get those who back the parties
to put pressure
on the parties to get them to
stop.
I do think there has been a
reduction in violence
that's noteworthy, because it
also helps us
get humanitarian assistance in.
But we have
got to see a more sustained
cessation of hostilities
and these violations stop, if
this thing is
to give us the momentum we need
for the political
track.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very question,
final question
on the refugees pouring or
trying to get into
Europe from the Middle East.
We have been telling their story
day after
day. As you know, the top U.S.
general of
NATO, Philip -- General Philip
Breedlove,
said the other day that he
believes that ISIS
is now spreading, in his words,
like a cancer
among these refugees. Is that
your understanding
of what's going on now?
SAMANTHA POWER: Well, I mean, I
think that,
certainly, we have seen, you
know, ISIS turning
up in European cities. We have
seen the Paris
attacks.
There is a lot of homegrown
extremism, people
who are first-generation who
have been born
in European countries who have
taken to extremism.
I think what's important is that
the systems
that we have to process people,
most of whom,
the vast, vast, vast majority of
whom, are
just in desperate need of
refuge, that the
systems we have are sufficient
to actually
being able -- be able to run
fingerprint checks,
you know, look into backgrounds
and so forth.
And that's the great
disadvantage of this
flood is, it's been much harder
for Europe
to manage than, for instance,
our program,
where we're able to actually
deliberate over
these refugee files for 18
months to make
sure we get it right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we're going
to leave
it there.
We very much appreciate your
talking with
us.
SAMANTHA POWER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: U.S. Ambassador
to the U.N.
Samantha Power.
SAMANTHA POWER: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight:
what's it like
to live in space for a year.
That's what astronaut Scott
Kelly has been
doing on the International Space
Station.
It's the focus of a special on
PBS tonight
called "A Year in Space."
Scott Kelly was actually up
there for 340
days before he descended by
capsule into Kazakstan
yesterday. It was the longest
any American
has been in space, and part of
an effort to
see how the body and mind fare
over time.
NASA hopes to get astronauts to
Mars in another
two decades. And it will take
2.5 years to
get there. Throughout his
mission, Scott Kelly
has circled the Earth more than
5,400 times,
traveling 143 million miles and
witnessed
thousands of sunrises, sunsets
and other incredible
views.
We have put together our own
compilation of
some of what Kelly's seen and
said from start
to finish.
MAN: Do you consider yourself
and Mikhail
pathfinders of sorts?
SCOTT KELLY, NASA Astronaut:
Sure. I guess
you could use that term, but I
think we all
SCOTT KELLY, NASA Astronaut:
Sure. I guess
you could use that term, but I
think we all
are, you know, all the crew
members over the
last 15 years and even those who
came before
that.
You know, flying in space is a
process. Exploring
space is a process that you take
step by step.
So, you know, on one hand, you
know, Misha
and I might be at the front of
that right
now because we have spent, you
know, a pretty
significant amount of time up
here, but that
in no way takes away from
anything that all
the previous folks have done,
you know, towards
that future goal of going to
Mars.
You know, I'm a big believer in
what we're
doing here. I believe in the
importance of
flying in space. And, you know,
the research
we do, I believe in exploration,
and I will
miss being on the front lines of
that endeavor,
I guess.
You know, on the one hand, I
look forward
to going home, but it's
something that has
been a big part of my life, and
I'm going
to miss it.
You know, you definitely have a
different
perspective on the Earth and
things that happen
down there. I keep probably more
in touch
with what's going on, on Earth
when I'm in
space than when I'm actually on
Earth.
And you definitely have a sense
of -- a heightened
sense of empathy and also, you
know, notice,
you know, the effects of our
presence on the
planet. It makes you somewhat,
if you weren't
already, an environmentalist,
and, you know,
definitely a feeling that we
need to take
care of it.
GWEN IFILL: Just spectacular.
You can watch more about Scott
Kelly's mission
tonight. "A Year in Space" airs
on PBS stations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All I can say is
wow.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.